# ms-seafood-globalization

This code processes the estimated ARTIS database for the following manuscript:
Gephart, J., Gephart, J.A., Bejarano, R.A., Gorospe, K., Godwin, A., Golden, C.D., Naylor, R.L., Nash, K.L., Pace, M.L. and Troell, M., 2024. Globalization of wild capture and farmed aquatic foods. Nature Communications.

Abstract: Aquatic foods are highly traded foods, with nearly 60 million tonnes exported in 2020, representing 11% of global agriculture trade by value. Despite the vast scale, basic characteristics of aquatic food trade, including species, origin, and farmed versus wild sourcing, are largely unknown due to the reporting of trade data. Consequently, we have a coarse picture of aquatic food trade and consumption patterns. Here, we present results from a new database on species trade that aligns production, conversion factors, and trade to compute consumption for all farmed and wild aquatic foods from 1996-2020. Over this period, aquatic foods became increasingly globalized, with the share of production exported increasing 40%. Importantly, trends differ across aquatic food sectors. Global consumption also increased 19.4% despite declining marine capture consumption, and some regions became increasingly reliant on foreign-sourced aquatic foods. To identify sustainable diet opportunities among aquatic foods, our findings and underlying database enable greater understanding of the role of trade in rapidly evolving aquatic food systems.

Note: You do not need to run "prep_data.R." This script processes the raw ARTIS data and outputs the summarized model inputs csv files. The input datafiles for generating the figures and results in this repository are available for download on Zenodo (10.5281/zenodo.10034319) in the manuscript_inputs folder. To run the code, download the csv files in the folder "manuscript_inputs" to the folder within this R project titled "data." The scripts ms_figures.Rmd and ms_results.Rmd can be run with the files downloaded from the archived manuscript_inputs folder. Figures generated by the code will be written out to the (initially empty) folder titled "figures."

The code for the model that estimates the ARTIS database is available [here](https://github.com/Seafood-Globalization-Lab/artis-model). For more information about ARTIS, please visit the project [website](https://artisdata.weebly.com/). 
